# Ames house pricing
## Project description
Prediction model for house prices in Ames, IA.

## Business Intelligence report
This study’s goal is to forecast house pricing in Ames, IA. Once having acquired the knowledge to read the Real Estate market in the city, it will be used for flipping. A substantial profit will be generated by purchasing homes that the model identifies as undervalued and re-selling them right after.

A 2,930-observations data set characterized by 20 features was analyzed in order to train an optimized Real Estate model and test its performance on unseen data. Surprisingly, most of the features like neighborhood or lot configuration (cul de sac, number of frontages)—expected to be significantly relevant—turned out not to be quite explanatory of pricing. On the other hand, overall quality (scale from 1 to 10 measuring quality of materials, decoration and finish of the house), garage size in terms of car capacity and total basement area resulted to shed light on what causes house value to change. Nevertheless, it is important to stress further information about how the data was collected and how to come up with each measure would be useful.

Let’s go straight to the point and jump into which homes are the most expensive as well as which ones are the cheapest. In order to put data in perspective, the average price accounts for $180,890. 

On the expensive side of the spectrum, most expensive houses feature overall qualities above 8 together with total basement areas over 1925 square feet, all of which translates into an average price of approximately $480,000, almost three times the average. It is assumed that quality and basement areas explain the refinement of the home, size of the family and activities carried out in leisure time such as fishing, golfing or tennis—all requiring decent storage room. Basement surface can also be allocated for a bar with a pool table and a gaming area in high income families.

On the cheap side of the spectrum, cheapest houses are characterized by overall qualities smaller than 5 and less than 2-car garage capacity. Prices for these residences average half of the total mean, or put another way, around $93,000. The less-than-2-car constraint points that this Real Estate is targeted to low-income families which cannot afford a second car or use public transportation.

 A significant trend that has been identified among observations is that the broader the basement surface, the more expensive the price of the house. This is not only due to an addition of square footage, but also because of its high correlation to the surface of the first floor as well as to the number of fireplaces, full baths and garage area. In other words, no one has ever pictured a dream house with a huge basement. Instead, if the basement is big, it is because it is needed and can be seen as an ultimate income level indicator.

In conclusion, the most efficient flipping strategy would consist of targeting homes targeted to high-income buyers, i.e. featuring an overall quality greater than 6, as the profit margins are high, and emotions play a big part of the decision making. Therefore, a model that provides a solid base for these scenarios is a major advantage. 


